4 Maccabees.
Chapter 10.
Now this one endured this praiseworthy death. The third was brought along, and exhorted by many to taste and save his life. 
But he cried out and said, “Don’t you know that the father of those who are dead is my father also, and that the same mother bore me, and that I was brought up in the same way? 
I don’t renounce the noble relationship of my kindred. 
Now then, whatever instrument of vengeance you have, apply it to my body, for you aren’t able to touch my soul, even if you want to.” 
But they, highly incensed at his boldness of speech, dislocated his hands and feet with racking engines, and wrenching them from their sockets, dismembered him. 
They dragged around his fingers, his arms, his legs, and his ankles. 
Not being able by any means to strangle him, they tore off his skin, together with the extreme tips of his fingers, and then dragged him to the wheel, 
around which his vertebral joints were loosened, and he saw his own flesh torn to shreds, and streams of blood flowing from his entrails. 
When about to die, he said, 
“We, O accursed tyrant, suffer this for the sake of Divine education and virtue. 
But you, for your impiety and blood shedding, will endure unceasing torments.” 
Thus having died worthily of his kindred, they dragged forward the fourth, saying, 
“Don’t share the madness of your kindred, but respect the king and save yourself.” 
But he said to them, “You don’t have a fire so scorching as to make me play the coward. 
By the blessed death of my kindred, and the eternal punishment of the tyrant, and the glorious life of the pious, I will not repudiate the noble brotherhood. 
Invent, O tyrant, tortures, that you may learn, even through them, that I am the brother of those tormented before.” 
When he had said this, the blood-thirsty, murderous, and unholy Antiochus ordered his tongue to be cut out. 
But he said, “Even if you take away the organ of speech, God still hears the silent. 
Behold, my tongue is extended, cut it off; for in spite of that you won’t silence our reasoning. 
We gladly lose our limbs on behalf of God. 
But God will speedily find you, since you cut off the tongue, the instrument of divine melody.” 
